hi
this is pretty cool in person and hi to
everybody online as well i'm amanda
malcolm i'm the cmo of g2
i joined g2 about six months ago from
mailchimp
and before that i worked for a number of
software and services companies serving
small businesses and enterprises
and one of the reasons i was so excited
to join g2 is because of the wealth of
data that g2 has on software buyers
there are tremendous learnings and
insights
from 60 million software buyers on
g2.com every year and so that's what i'm
going to talk about today is sharing
some of those key takeaways
and what they mean for you whether you
sell to small business or enterprise
companies so thanks for joining us
with that i promise you this is my only
methodology slide but i want to give you
some insight into where these insights
came from so again 60 million buyers on
g2.com we take that and we're looking at
insights and key trends and buying
behavior as well as spend across 1.4
million reviews on that software and
then we also did a survey the findings
of which we just released this morning
so you're seeing this for the first time
of 800 software buyers around the world
so this is the summation of all of that
insight and knowledge
i'm going to start with the good news
you made it
the last year has been tough
we saw dips in software spend
immediately following kovid
and now in q2 we just surpassed the
highest software spend per employee that
we've seen at g2 to date
so that should feel pretty good
even better
in our survey 55 percent
a buyer said they're going to spend more
next year as well
and the total number of unique products
which you're looking at here is the
number of products that a company buys
on average
just in the first half of this year it's
higher than we've ever seen on average
124 software products per company
tremendous opportunity for all of you
and all of your companies
but with this growth what we're seeing
is that the way software buyers buy is
fundamentally changing
software is becoming a reflection of our
everyday lives
so this is the top trending categories
on g2.com in the past year
i love the first one because clearly
we're all at home in our pajamas trying
to figure out how to make a buck on
cryptocurrency
i have not figured it out so if you have
tips please come see me after the
presentation
we're also trying to figure out how to
work from home better together so video
conferencing marketing automation
project management
this is the zeitgeist of our culture is
reflected in software
the other thing that's changing
is the way we go about buying it
and so in the rest of this presentation
i'm going to share three key trends
and hopefully some examples of things
that you can be doing to capitalize on
these
i don't think any of these are going to
be revolutionary things that you've
never heard before so what my hope is is
that this is a distillation
of the top three things to focus on a
blueprint
for how you can go to market
and the first is that software buying is
happening faster and becoming more
frictionless
i think we all know about the
frictionless part we've talked about
product led growth how can you create a
delightful customer experience
but the habiting faster part surprised
us particularly given how dramatic it is
especially as we've all heard that
there's more people involved in software
buying decisions than ever before all
true 55 percent of buyers say that they
need less than three months to make a
decision of twenty thousand dollars or
more
eighty-five percent a buyer say i don't
need more than six months to make a
decision
and you may be thinking enterprise my
company they take forever right it's
like 12 to 18 months they can't make a
decision
82 percent of enterprises 1000 employees
or more are saying i don't need more
than six months to make a decision
this really surprised us
we think there's a couple of things
happening here the first is is that
there's friction frictionless experience
is how we buy
so over half of buyers say that they're
using credit cards to make their
purchase decisions to make their
purchases and 48 for enterprise so
they're using credit cards more readily
and using trials more often as well
the other thing we're seeing is that
there's more ways to buy
one in five buyers
prefers to buy from someone other than
you
a third-party marketplace a var a
value-added reseller
this is key to thinking about how we go
to market
more frictionless experiences means they
can make them faster more convenient
ways to buy and places to buy means that
they're more likely to make those
decisions faster and give you a try
more startling 67
of companies usually engage a
salesperson after they've already made a
decision
so how can you influence them prior to
them reaching out
this stat
is troubling
you have to think of ways to sell
before they contact sales if you're a
sales led organization
so what can we do with this faster more
frictionless decisions making decisions
and educating themselves before they
even reach out to sales
adopting a product-led growth mindset is
key we all talk about product led growth
i've seen many many great panels on
product led growth here at saster
already
but a lot of times we think about it as
a destination once i get the free trial
i'm going to be doing plg it's really a
mindset
how can you reduce friction to try and
buy
a great example is a free trial but not
everybody is there
and free trials can often be very
limiting for the buyer
i'm going to stop and give you a
non-software example
i had a baby during coven
and about a year in
uh which he's about a year now
i had a realization many parents have
which is car seats are huge and i need a
bigger car
so i decided to go get a test drive
and i filled out the form to like
schedule a test drive
and i heard back about 24 hours later
and delighted we schedule it and it
turns out it was routed to the wrong
dealership
and i was like you know what forget it
i'm just gonna march down there and see
see what's there and that reminded me
like that's what it feels like when a
demo request is routed to the wrong
person right that's not a delightful
frictionless experience
so then i get down there
and i went to two different dealerships
and the first one said i'm sorry we
don't have any inventory can i show you
some pictures on the website
no thank you there's a chip shortage i
get it
and the second dealership said come on
in
the car that i wanted was literally
sitting in the dealership inside and
they said why don't we drive it out
and let you give you the keys let you
take it for spin
within 10 minutes i was sitting in the
car
of course it was the top of the line
model with bells and whistles i did not
know i needed but absolutely felt like i
had to have
you know after i was doing it disco
lights like who needs that i don't know
but i wanted them
and it just reminded me that
if i hadn't gotten in the car and tried
all the bells and whistles
there's no way anyone could have sold me
that i needed those things
and so a free trial is a great example
of product led growth but it's only one
way
pendo is
a really best-in-class example i think
they released a free trial last year
around this time but they went a step
further because appendo if you're
familiar it's it's kind of hard to
really experience pendo especially in
the limited version on the free trial
and it really is something you kind of
want to experience for yourself within
the product to get and so they went a
step further and they said you can
request a demo or you can just put in
some basic information and why don't we
just show you what it's like and let you
take the keys and drive it around
and so this is a demo experience
directly on the home page of pendo that
allows you to see any aspect of pender
that you want
and it feels like you're driving
i didn't even know pendo did have this
stuff and i've used pendo this is a
great
way to reduce friction to try
and get people to hopefully buy things
they never even knew they needed
another example of product led growth is
designing for multiple front doors i'm
not going to
tell you about marketplaces you know
that we talked about that we saw one in
five buyers is preferring to buy from a
marketplace or a bar
not everybody can be in a marketplace
but there are other ways to think about
multiple front doors
it used to be that we thought of
ourselves as a product company i'm one
product how do i make sure i get as many
people to come to my product as possible
but what if you're a franchise
what if you can franchise your product
and get it in more people's hands for
more use cases
and think about different front doors to
your product experience
so
i love this example from vimeo
and if you're here you're missing the
ceo of vimeo anjali so you should watch
her presentation later
but vimeo just released a trial
of their product within asana
and what i love about this is obviously
product integrations nothing new this is
enhancing the functionality of asana but
what it's doing for vimeo is it's
actually allowing people to use the
product
in a really interesting use case example
within asana
and if you want to use it outside of
asana guess what
you have to pay for vimeo
so
this is a great front door for vimeo
miro if you've ever used miro great
experience for creating templates and
really thinking visual visually really a
visual collaboration tool for your teams
but it's used in so many different ways
by so many different personas
one of the things they've done is
actually think about all the most common
use cases
for miro
and then created actually a paid search
campaign that just if you're looking for
in this case a service blueprint
they have paid search ads that'll bring
you directly to a template that's a
front door right a different use case
for the product drops you right into use
the template you're going to use it find
it delightful and hopefully upgrade in
your product experience
so think about yourself as a franchise
how can you actually get your product
into more use cases in people's hands
and test your way into it i like
thinking of plg as a mindset as opposed
to a destination
you test your way into it you're always
working on that journey you're never
sort of done and i think it also
prevents this sort of feeling like if i
don't have a free trial i'm not doing it
right
that's great you should work towards
that there are other things you can do
as well
so that's the first takeaway
buying is happening faster and more
frictionless than ever before
the second takeaway
is that building trust
is more essential but it's harder than
ever to do
we all know that trust matters
but who can you trust
our survey shows that traditional forms
of influence are fragmenting
this doesn't mean they're going away it
just means our jobs as marketers you're
a marketer in the room sorry it's harder
because there are more places that
people are looking
to make their decisions and inform their
buying
only four percent of buyers trust
traditional analysts and market research
firms the most when they're making
decisions
that does not mean they're not looking
at the report it just means that if
you're in the quadrant your job is not
done right only four percent are going
to say that's what's going to help me
make the decision
consider your website the most trusted
place
that's not great right they're looking
at other things beyond your website and
sort of thinking about this as a
holistic picture to say let me look at
this but let me look at 10 other sources
as well to educate myself by the way
before i ever talk to your sales team
what they do unanimously say
86 of the people we surveyed
look to peers
and peer reviews to inform their
decisions i've heard people say yes but
that's probably only small business
customers
85 percent
of enterprise buyers look at peer
reviews
and they say it makes them more
confident in their decision making
process
it is a critical tool
to market to your customers
how many people here
just as a show of hands sorry for those
online
use reviews in your personal life
that's close to 100 percent
you probably all have your strategies
for it right like i'm the i go to the
one star and i'm like how bad is bad
some people are like i want to know what
the average is everybody has their way
what makes us think that then we go into
our our professional lives and we're
like i'm gonna buy a totally different
way this doesn't matter
right so think about that experience
what does that look like
for your buyer
and the final thing about trust is that
when we asked buyers what would hold
them back for making a purchase decision
the top four most common reasons
shared one thing in common
a lack of credible
customer-led content
your buyers want to hear from your
customers
they want customer references
credible content which by the way
probably means that has
some content or source that's not you
and not enough reviews on review
websites
that's a key one too because they're
looking there and they want that
credible content so what can you do
if the first takeaway
was all about frictionless experiences
and product led growth
trust is all about customer
lead growth and customer-led marketing
what if your customers are actually your
best marketing partners
what would that look like
how can you incentivize advocacy
so sendoso
has a program called the sendoso
supercenter program
it's an advocacy program designed to
drive reviews
as well as case studies testimonials and
other kinds of advocacy
in the reviews on g2 some of their
customers actually cite how much they
love this program as a reason for them
loving sendoso which is very meta and i
love that
and you can tell that they have invested
time in building advocacy you can see
that it shows
and how far and away on the grid on
g2.com they are in their category
hubspot long known for community
great community program at hubspot
just launched their advocacy program
last week
hub fans
is a program designed for people maybe
you don't want to participate in the
community or answer forum questions or
become a partner maybe you just want to
share your love of hubspot and be
rewarded for it
hubspot just did this in part in
recognition of the fact that advocacy
counts and you can do small things to
incentivize that among your customers
and drive up your reviews as well as
advocacy in other ways
the second thing you can do to really
earn trust and share it with your
prospects as well is to build community
i debated calling this community because
i feel like it's a very loaded term we
use it to mean a lot of different things
at its core
if you've got advocates you can work
your way towards building a community
which i define as having a really high
value exchange
the value for your end customer in that
community should be higher than the what
they deliver to you
and let me give you an example the best
one i can think of is shopify
shopify had almost 3 billion in revenue
in 2020
and over 12 billion
is what shopify partners generated for
themselves
through the shopify partner program that
same year
42 000
partners in their community referred at
least one new customer to shopify that
same year
that's value exchange and building a
community now not every value exchange
has to be monetary but if you've got
advocates think about how can you
harness them and really even elevate the
value exchange that you have with them
further
and once you have that community or
maybe this is your way into community
how can you create more customer driven
content
and co-marketing
really treating your customers as your
best marketing partners
if you know your buyers want to hear
from your customers
how can you put your customers on a
pedestal and let them help market for
you you'd be surprised how many
customers will actually embrace this and
want to do it
air table is a great example they have
air table universe so they actually just
created a platform and said hey you're
using air table in really cool and
inspiring ways why don't you throw up
your project and share with the
community
there are so many thousands of examples
on air table universe it's really fun to
check it out
figma
launched their community which is
actually again customer driven marketing
and content and they saw three million
plugins
really shortly after i think like a few
months after they launched from what i
read
incredible asset for both their
prospects who are trying to figure out
how can i use figma as well as their
customers to be inspired in new ways to
use it
and then mailchimp
actually created a partner community
and then went a step further and said
what if our partners actually do our
marketing some of our education and
training for our customers
there's a templates commerce store where
you can buy templates created by their
customers
and there's actually partners again some
of their best customers doing workshops
and trainings
a lot of times we think we know the
product best so let's train our users
your users probably know the product
best pick your best users and think
about how could they actually be your
marketing partners
again trust is harder than ever but if
you've got great passionate customers
you can build it if you treat them as
your marketing partners as well
and the final takeaway
is that more than ever retention is your
foundation for growth
this may seem really obvious
when i talk to cmos
every cmo i talk to
can cite how much they spend on customer
acquisition many fewer
can say how much they spend
to keep and grow those customers
retention requires a strategy
a plan
and a budget
and it's important
because expectations for you and your
company are higher than ever
we asked what were the most important
criteria how important are these things
to you for software buyers we could only
fit
six on this slide
there were 12
11 of the 12
80 percent or more people said this is
important to very important
so what that looked like across all
segments by the way so what that looks
like is everything is important
right
that's a possible bar to me
these are just the top six
and eighty-one percent of respondents
said i need to see our roi in six months
or less
now many of you are like great no
problem
but some of you
and i imagine in my former life i would
have been one of them been like so i
have to get you to sign on board train
you implement the product and you need
to see tangible roi in six months
great how am i going to do that
say you've got you negotiated hopefully
you've got more than a one-year contract
maybe you've got a two-year contract
maybe you're always on
at some point when your
contract is about to expire or the
customer is saying i've been working
with your product for a while renewal is
coming up
60 are going to be
watching
other companies and checking to see if
they should stay with you
but there is some good news i will say
there's huge upside opportunity not just
to keeping your customers but growing
with them
one in three buyers
prefers to buy complimentary products
from the same company
if trust is harder than ever
the upside of that is that once you win
their trust
you've got a great opportunity and it's
going to be much harder for others to
earn their trust back
so how can you capitalize on this
the first thing to do is invest in
retention marketing again it has to have
a plan a strategy a budget
the second thing is look for the signs
so
there are many many signs of a customer
who's at risk
you might have a health score
so say you've actually thought about
your product metrics and you said okay
when they adopt i see them log in at
this frequency maybe you have a couple
of things that roll up into a health
score that's one great way to do it
it's harder i think during covit because
we're all at home we're working remotely
it's harder to have face-to-face
interactions but there are other signals
you can look for
for example intense signals
often used for acquisition actually
great for retention so on g2.com you
could actually set up a signal to know
anytime one of your customers was
looking at someone else in your category
that's real you can use it for retention
so look for the signs
and the final thing is celebrate your
roi
i don't mean like sharing alright like
yes there's roi calculators talk about
your ri celebrate
is the operative word here
how many times do we actually like make
our customers the hero and celebrate
their roi i really struggled i looked
for great examples of this and i didn't
have too many so my challenge to you all
is like share with me your stories of
celebrating your customers roi because i
know they're out there
your customer took a risk
to work with you and your product
how can you make them the hero
can you have benchmarks and if they
exceed the benchmarks that you're seeing
for others do you give them award do you
give them something that they can share
with everyone in their company to make
them look great how can you make the
celebrate part of this really key
because if you make your customer the
hero if they feel like they trust you
and they feel great about working with
you they're going to stay with you
and there's a good chance based on this
data they're going to buy more with you
and that really is the foundation for
growth and i think the best examples i
can give you as to why this matters and
who's doing it well is actually in the
nr
at the time of ipo for some of the more
successful ipos of the last few years
asana has a number of small business
customers and yet even with their
blended in our it's still at 115 at the
time of their ipo
snowflake
i mean really setting the bar for all of
us i don't
i don't know i feel like this bar is
incredibly high but you know very
aspirational at 168
so think about nr not just arr
and with that those are our three
takeaways software buying is happening
faster and more frictionless than ever
before
a product-led growth mindset
is really where you need to be headed
building trust is essential but it's
harder than ever
working with your customers as your best
marketing partners is a great way to
build trust
and retention is really the foundation
for your growth invest in making your
customer the hero and you're going to
see that your growth will accelerate
well beyond just focusing on acquisition
if you want to get the report you can
research.g2.com you'll be able to get
all of the findings
and you can also if you're in person
you can come see us at the g2 booth and
we'll be happy to share more but with
that i want to thank you all i hope you
found this helpful and a blueprint for
for how you can go to market moving
forward thanks for joining us
[Music]
you